blog: Bringing agents back to earth blog post. (#2972)
electric-sql/electric: website/blog/posts/2025-08-12-bringing-agents-back-down-to-earth.md

authors: [thruflo]
image: /img/blog/bringing-agents-back-down-to-earth/header2.jpg
tags: [db]
outline: [2, 3]
post: true
---

<script setup>
  import { data } from '../../data/posts.data.ts'
  const posts = data.filter(post => {
    return post.path === '/blog/2025/07/29/local-first-sync-with-tanstack-db'
  })

  import BlogPostListing from '../../src/components/BlogPostListing.vue'
  import YoutubeEmbed from '../../src/components/YoutubeEmbed.vue'
</script>

<style scoped>
  .listing {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: 1fr;
    gap: 32px;
    margin: 24px 0;
    overflow: hidden;
  }
  @media (max-width: 1049px) {
    .listing {
      grid-template-columns: 1fr;
    }
  }
  @media (max-width: 949px) {
    .listing {
      gap: 32px;
      margin: 24px 0;
    }
  }
  @media (max-width: 749px) {
    .listing {
      grid-template-columns: 1fr;
      gap: 32px;
      margin: 20px 0;
    }
  }
  @media (max-width: 549px) {
    .listing {
      margin: 20px 0;
    }
  }
</style>

There's a lot of hype around agentic system development. Concepts like agentic memory, instruction routing, retrieval and context engineering.

> When you dig into it, these all collapse down to processes and database state. You can build agentic systems with a database, standard web tooling and real-time sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But when you dig into it, these all collapse to processes and database state.  In fact, you can build agentic systems with a database, standard web tooling and real-time sync.
```
